README.md, before:

# ![CI logo](https://codeinstitute.s3.amazonaws.com/fullstack/ci_logo_small.png)

## Template Instructions

Welcome,

This is the Code Institute student template for the Heritage Housing project option in Predictive Analytics. We have preinstalled all of the tools you need to get started. It's perfectly ok to use this template as the basis for your project submissions. Click the `Use this template` button above to get started.

You can safely delete the Template Instructions section of this README.md file,  and modify the remaining paragraphs for your own project. Please do read the Template Instructions at least once, though! It contains some important information about the IDE and the extensions we use.

## How to use this repo

1. Use this template to create your GitHub project repo

2. Log into the cloud-based IDE with your GitHub account.

3. On your Dashboard, click on the Create button

4. Paste in the URL you copied from GitHub earlier

5. Click Create

6. Wait for the workspace to open. This can take a few minutes.

7. Open a new terminal and `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

11. Open the jupyter_notebooks directory and click on the notebook you want to open.

12. Click the kernel button and choose Python Environments.

Note that the kernel says Python 3.8.18 as it inherits from the workspace so it will be Python-3.8.18 as installed by our template. To confirm this you can use `! python --version` in a notebook code cell.

## Cloud IDE Reminders

To log into the Heroku toolbelt CLI:

1. Log in to your Heroku account and go to *Account Settings* in the menu under your avatar.
2. Scroll down to the *API Key* and click *Reveal*
3. Copy the key
4. In your Cloud IDE, from the terminal, run `heroku_config`
5. Paste in your API key when asked

You can now use the `heroku` CLI program - try running `heroku apps` to confirm it works. This API key is unique and private to you so do not share it. If you accidentally make it public then you can create a new one with *Regenerate API Key*.

## Dataset Content

* The dataset is sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/codeinstitute/housing-prices-data). We then created a fictitious user story where predictive analytics can be applied in a real project in the workplace.
* The dataset has almost 1.5 thousand rows and represents housing records from Ames, Iowa, indicating house profile (Floor Area, Basement, Garage, Kitchen, Lot, Porch, Wood Deck, Year Built) and its respective sale price for houses built between 1872 and 2010.

|Variable|Meaning|Units|
|:----|:----|:----|
|1stFlrSF|First Floor square feet|334 - 4692|
|2ndFlrSF|Second-floor square feet|0 - 2065|
|BedroomAbvGr|Bedrooms above grade (does NOT include basement bedrooms)|0 - 8|
|BsmtExposure|Refers to walkout or garden level walls|Gd: Good Exposure; Av: Average Exposure; Mn: Minimum Exposure; No: No Exposure; None: No Basement|
|BsmtFinType1|Rating of basement finished area|GLQ: Good Living Quarters; ALQ: Average Living Quarters; BLQ: Below Average Living Quarters; Rec: Average Rec Room; LwQ: Low Quality; Unf: Unfinshed; None: No Basement|
|BsmtFinSF1|Type 1 finished square feet|0 - 5644|
|BsmtUnfSF|Unfinished square feet of basement area|0 - 2336|
|TotalBsmtSF|Total square feet of basement area|0 - 6110|
|GarageArea|Size of garage in square feet|0 - 1418|
|GarageFinish|Interior finish of the garage|Fin: Finished; RFn: Rough Finished; Unf: Unfinished; None: No Garage|
|GarageYrBlt|Year garage was built|1900 - 2010|
|GrLivArea|Above grade (ground) living area square feet|334 - 5642|
|KitchenQual|Kitchen quality|Ex: Excellent; Gd: Good; TA: Typical/Average; Fa: Fair; Po: Poor|
|LotArea| Lot size in square feet|1300 - 215245|
|LotFrontage| Linear feet of street connected to property|21 - 313|
|MasVnrArea|Masonry veneer area in square feet|0 - 1600|
|EnclosedPorch|Enclosed porch area in square feet|0 - 286|
|OpenPorchSF|Open porch area in square feet|0 - 547|
|OverallCond|Rates the overall condition of the house|10: Very Excellent; 9: Excellent; 8: Very Good; 7: Good; 6: Above Average; 5: Average; 4: Below Average; 3: Fair; 2: Poor; 1: Very Poor|
|OverallQual|Rates the overall material and finish of the house|10: Very Excellent; 9: Excellent; 8: Very Good; 7: Good; 6: Above Average; 5: Average; 4: Below Average; 3: Fair; 2: Poor; 1: Very Poor|
|WoodDeckSF|Wood deck area in square feet|0 - 736|
|YearBuilt|Original construction date|1872 - 2010|
|YearRemodAdd|Remodel date (same as construction date if no remodelling or additions)|1950 - 2010|
|SalePrice|Sale Price|34900 - 755000|

## Business Requirements

As a good friend, you are requested by your friend, who has received an inheritance from a deceased great-grandfather located in Ames, Iowa, to  help in maximising the sales price for the inherited properties.

Although your friend has an excellent understanding of property prices in her own state and residential area, she fears that basing her estimates for property worth on her current knowledge might lead to inaccurate appraisals. What makes a house desirable and valuable where she comes from might not be the same in Ames, Iowa. She found a public dataset with house prices for Ames, Iowa, and will provide you with that.

* 1 - The client is interested in discovering how the house attributes correlate with the sale price. Therefore, the client expects data visualisations of the correlated variables against the sale price to show that.
* 2 - The client is interested in predicting the house sale price from her four inherited houses and any other house in Ames, Iowa.

## Hypothesis and how to validate?

* List here your project hypothesis(es) and how you envision validating it (them).

## The rationale to map the business requirements to the Data Visualisations and ML tasks

* List your business requirements and a rationale to map them to the Data Visualisations and ML tasks.

## ML Business Case

* In the previous bullet, you potentially visualised an ML task to answer a business requirement. You should frame the business case using the method we covered in the course.

## Dashboard Design

* List all dashboard pages and their content, either blocks of information or widgets, like buttons, checkboxes, images, or any other items that your dashboard library supports.
* Eventually, during the project development, you may revisit your dashboard plan to update a given feature (for example, at the beginning of the project you were confident you would use a given plot to display an insight but eventually you needed to use another plot type)

## Unfixed Bugs

* You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not valid reason to leave bugs unfixed.

## Deployment

### Heroku

* The App live link is: <https://YOUR_APP_NAME.herokuapp.com/>
* Set the runtime.txt Python version to a [Heroku-20](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support#supported-runtimes) stack currently supported version.
* The project was deployed to Heroku using the following steps.

1. Log in to Heroku and create an App
2. At the Deploy tab, select GitHub as the deployment method.
3. Select your repository name and click Search. Once it is found, click Connect.
4. Select the branch you want to deploy, then click Deploy Branch.
5. The deployment process should happen smoothly if all deployment files are fully functional. Click the button Open App on the top of the page to access your App.
6. If the slug size is too large then add large files not required for the app to the .slugignore file.

## Main Data Analysis and Machine Learning Libraries

* Here you should list the libraries you used in the project and provide example(s) of how you used these libraries.

## Credits

* In this section, you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.
* You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project.

### Content

* The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
* Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign-Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
* The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

### Media

* The photos used on the home and sign-up page are from This Open Source site
* The images used for the gallery page were taken from this other open-source site

## Acknowledgements (optional)


* In case you would like to thank the people that provided support through this project.

Commit message:

Add raw data from Kaggle to project repository

README.md, after:

# ![CI logo](https://codeinstitute.s3.amazonaws.com/fullstack/ci_logo_small.png)

## Template Instructions

Welcome,

This is the Code Institute student template for the Heritage Housing project option in Predictive Analytics. We have preinstalled all of the tools you need to get started. It's perfectly ok to use this template as the basis for your project submissions. Click the `Use this template` button above to get started.

You can safely delete the Template Instructions section of this README.md file,  and modify the remaining paragraphs for your own project. Please do read the Template Instructions at least once, though! It contains some important information about the IDE and the extensions we use.

## How to use this repo

1. Use this template to create your GitHub project repo

2. Log into the cloud-based IDE with your GitHub account.

3. On your Dashboard, click on the Create button

4. Paste in the URL you copied from GitHub earlier

5. Click Create

6. Wait for the workspace to open. This can take a few minutes.

7. Open a new terminal and `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

11. Open the jupyter_notebooks directory and click on the notebook you want to open.

12. Click the kernel button and choose Python Environments.

Note that the kernel says Python 3.8.18 as it inherits from the workspace so it will be Python-3.8.18 as installed by our template. To confirm this you can use `! python --version` in a notebook code cell.

## Cloud IDE Reminders

To log into the Heroku toolbelt CLI:

1. Log in to your Heroku account and go to *Account Settings* in the menu under your avatar.
2. Scroll down to the *API Key* and click *Reveal*
3. Copy the key
4. In your Cloud IDE, from the terminal, run `heroku_config`
5. Paste in your API key when asked

You can now use the `heroku` CLI program - try running `heroku apps` to confirm it works. This API key is unique and private to you so do not share it. If you accidentally make it public then you can create a new one with *Regenerate API Key*.

## Dataset Content

* The dataset is sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/codeinstitute/housing-prices-data). We then created a fictitious user story where predictive analytics can be applied in a real project in the workplace.
* The dataset has almost 1.5 thousand rows and represents housing records from Ames, Iowa, indicating house profile (Floor Area, Basement, Garage, Kitchen, Lot, Porch, Wood Deck, Year Built) and its respective sale price for houses built between 1872 and 2010.

|Variable|Meaning|Units|
|:----|:----|:----|
|1stFlrSF|First Floor square feet|334 - 4692|
|2ndFlrSF|Second-floor square feet|0 - 2065|
|BedroomAbvGr|Bedrooms above grade (does NOT include basement bedrooms)|0 - 8|
|BsmtExposure|Refers to walkout or garden level walls|Gd: Good Exposure; Av: Average Exposure; Mn: Minimum Exposure; No: No Exposure; None: No Basement|
|BsmtFinType1|Rating of basement finished area|GLQ: Good Living Quarters; ALQ: Average Living Quarters; BLQ: Below Average Living Quarters; Rec: Average Rec Room; LwQ: Low Quality; Unf: Unfinshed; None: No Basement|
|BsmtFinSF1|Type 1 finished square feet|0 - 5644|
|BsmtUnfSF|Unfinished square feet of basement area|0 - 2336|
|TotalBsmtSF|Total square feet of basement area|0 - 6110|
|GarageArea|Size of garage in square feet|0 - 1418|
|GarageFinish|Interior finish of the garage|Fin: Finished; RFn: Rough Finished; Unf: Unfinished; None: No Garage|
|GarageYrBlt|Year garage was built|1900 - 2010|
|GrLivArea|Above grade (ground) living area square feet|334 - 5642|
|KitchenQual|Kitchen quality|Ex: Excellent; Gd: Good; TA: Typical/Average; Fa: Fair; Po: Poor|
|LotArea| Lot size in square feet|1300 - 215245|
|LotFrontage| Linear feet of street connected to property|21 - 313|
|MasVnrArea|Masonry veneer area in square feet|0 - 1600|
|EnclosedPorch|Enclosed porch area in square feet|0 - 286|
|OpenPorchSF|Open porch area in square feet|0 - 547|
|OverallCond|Rates the overall condition of the house|10: Very Excellent; 9: Excellent; 8: Very Good; 7: Good; 6: Above Average; 5: Average; 4: Below Average; 3: Fair; 2: Poor; 1: Very Poor|
|OverallQual|Rates the overall material and finish of the house|10: Very Excellent; 9: Excellent; 8: Very Good; 7: Good; 6: Above Average; 5: Average; 4: Below Average; 3: Fair; 2: Poor; 1: Very Poor|
|WoodDeckSF|Wood deck area in square feet|0 - 736|
|YearBuilt|Original construction date|1872 - 2010|
|YearRemodAdd|Remodel date (same as construction date if no remodelling or additions)|1950 - 2010|
|SalePrice|Sale Price|34900 - 755000|

## Business Requirements

As a good friend, you are requested by your friend, who has received an inheritance from a deceased great-grandfather located in Ames, Iowa, to  help in maximising the sales price for the inherited properties.

Although your friend has an excellent understanding of property prices in her own state and residential area, she fears that basing her estimates for property worth on her current knowledge might lead to inaccurate appraisals. What makes a house desirable and valuable where she comes from might not be the same in Ames, Iowa. She found a public dataset with house prices for Ames, Iowa, and will provide you with that.

* 1 - The client is interested in discovering how the house attributes correlate with the sale price. Therefore, the client expects data visualisations of the correlated variables against the sale price to show that.
* 2 - The client is interested in predicting the house sale price from her four inherited houses and any other house in Ames, Iowa.

## Hypothesis and how to validate?

1. Lot Size and Property Size Correlate with Price: Our first hypothesis is that both property size and lot size have a strong correlation with the sales price. Larger properties and lots are likely to be more valuable due to their potential use and space.

## The rationale to map the business requirements to the Data Visualisations and ML tasks

* List your business requirements and a rationale to map them to the Data Visualisations and ML tasks.

## ML Business Case

* In the previous bullet, you potentially visualised an ML task to answer a business requirement. You should frame the business case using the method we covered in the course.

## Dashboard Design

* List all dashboard pages and their content, either blocks of information or widgets, like buttons, checkboxes, images, or any other items that your dashboard library supports.
* Eventually, during the project development, you may revisit your dashboard plan to update a given feature (for example, at the beginning of the project you were confident you would use a given plot to display an insight but eventually you needed to use another plot type)

## Unfixed Bugs

* You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not valid reason to leave bugs unfixed.

## Deployment

### Heroku

* The App live link is: <https://YOUR_APP_NAME.herokuapp.com/>
* Set the runtime.txt Python version to a [Heroku-20](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support#supported-runtimes) stack currently supported version.
* The project was deployed to Heroku using the following steps.

1. Log in to Heroku and create an App
2. At the Deploy tab, select GitHub as the deployment method.
3. Select your repository name and click Search. Once it is found, click Connect.
4. Select the branch you want to deploy, then click Deploy Branch.
5. The deployment process should happen smoothly if all deployment files are fully functional. Click the button Open App on the top of the page to access your App.
6. If the slug size is too large then add large files not required for the app to the .slugignore file.

## Main Data Analysis and Machine Learning Libraries

* Here you should list the libraries you used in the project and provide example(s) of how you used these libraries.

## Credits

* In this section, you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.
* You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project.

### Content

* The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
* Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign-Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
* The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

### Media

* The photos used on the home and sign-up page are from This Open Source site
* The images used for the gallery page were taken from this other open-source site

## Acknowledgements (optional)


* In case you would like to thank the people that provided support through this project.
